Jehovah warned that in the last days, there would be critical times hard to deal with.
And there would be food shortages, pestilences, earthquakes in one place after another, and other fearful sites.
We also contend with wildfires, volcanic eruptions, destructive storms, and man-made disasters,
as well as an increase of wallessness, civil unrest, and war.
No matter where we live, we will likely be affected by some form of disaster, whether natural or man-made.
How can we be prepared?
First, we can prepare spiritually.
Isaiah 30-15 says, your strength will be in keeping calm and showing trust.
So we need to build and maintain a close relationship with Jehovah and learn to trust in him now.
We do not expect divine intervention, but when we pray during times of distress,
his powerful, holy spirit can bring Bible passages back to mind to keep us calm and give us wisdom to make good decisions.
Second, we can prepare physically by maintaining a go-back.
Our go-back could include items such as first aid supplies, bottled water, non-perishable food, a Bible, and other necessary items.
If possible, each household should also have a reasonable reserve of basic supplies at home in case it is necessary to shelter in place for an extended period of time.
Check what government authorities recommend for your community.
Also, we shouldn't forget to update the elders with our latest contact information.
If we don't do so, valuable time could be lost into disaster.
Additionally, during family worship, our family could review the types of disasters that could happen.
Remember, emergencies like terrorist attacks and unrest can occur anywhere and without warning.
So consider what could be done in each situation, such as where to meet and how to contact the elders.
And third, we can prepare to help others when they're experiencing a disaster.
So what can we expect if a disaster occurs locally?
If advance warning of a disaster is given, field service group overseers will make sure that everyone in their group is in a safe location.
Immediately after a disaster occurs, each field service group overseer will contact everyone in his group to learn of their needs.
It could take time to organize relief assistance, especially if supplies are limited.
So it's vital that each of us takes steps to prepare, follows government warnings, and keeps the elders informed of our circumstances.
Philippians, two four states, look out for the interests of others.
When we are prepared, more attention can be given to those with the most critical needs.
And we may be able to help others in our own congregation and nearby, even if we're affected.
For example, in some circumstances, brothers may need a place to stay temporarily.
Perhaps we could open our home and help them, or they might need food or basic supplies.
We could share what we have.
In other situations, our brothers may need help cleaning or repairing their home when it's safe to do so.
But what if a disaster occurs in another area?
Should we travel there to help? If help is needed, the branch office will assign brothers to coordinate and assist with relief efforts.
So the best time to make yourself available is now before a disaster occurs.
Ask your local elders for an application.
Then when there's a need, the branch office will know you're willing to assist.
And do not forget the power of prayer.
By offering prayers in their behalf, by volunteering to assist with disaster relief efforts,
and by contributing donations to the worldwide work, we can assist our brothers.
No, we can't avoid all disasters, whether natural or man-made.
But when we follow the direction from Jehovah's word in organization, our obedience glorifies Jehovah.
If we prepare spiritually, physically, and prepare to help others,
we can take comfort in knowing that Jehovah will bless our efforts to be prepared for a disaster.